TITLE OF THE THESIS
by
Jack Dylan Sanders
A thesis submitted to the University of Birmingham for the degree of DOCTOR
OF PHILOSOPHY
Particle Physics Research Group
School of Physics and Astronomy
College of Engineering and Physical Sciences
University of Birmingham
DateAbstract
Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetuer adipiscing elit. Ut purus elit, vestibulum ut, pla-
cerat ac, adipiscing vitae, felis. Curabitur dictum gravida mauris. Nam arcu libero, nonummy
eget, consectetuer id, vulputate a, magna. Donec vehicula augue eu neque. Pellentesque ha-
bitant morbi tristique senectus et netus et malesuada fames ac turpis egestas. Mauris ut leo.
Cras viverra metus rhoncus sem. Nulla et lectus vestibulum urna fringilla ultrices. Phasellus
eu tellus sit amet tortor gravida placerat. Integer sapien est, iaculis in, pretium quis, viverra
ac, nunc. Praesent eget sem vel leo ultrices bibendum. Aenean faucibus. Morbi dolor nulla,
malesuada eu, pulvinar at, mollis ac, nulla. Curabitur auctor semper nulla. Donec varius orci
eget risus. Duis nibh mi, congue eu, accumsan eleifend, sagittis quis, diam. Duis eget orci sit
amet orci dignissim rutrum.
1Acknowledgements
blah blah blah
2Contents
1 Introduction 6
2 Theoretical foundations 6
3 The NA62 Experiment 6
3.1 Detector Setup . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
3.1.1 KTAG . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
3.1.2 STRAW Spectrometer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
3List of Figures
1 X-Z diagram of NA62 detector setup for Run 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
2 Diagram describing the CEDAR optics (1) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
3 Photo of CEDAR and KTAG installed in the NA62 beamline . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
4 Diagram of straw placement in each view (2) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
4List of Tables
51 Introduction
Hello Chapter!
2 Theoretical foundations
Start of theory
3 The NA62 Experiment
The NA62 experiment is a fixed target experiment located in the north area of CERN. It aims
to measure the branching fraction of the ultra-rare charged kaon decay K+→π+ν¯νto a 10%
precision, similar to theoretical SM calculations shown in the previous section. A target of 100
events has been set to obtain this precision, requiring the exposure of kaon decays in the order of
1013.
The experiment employs a decay-in-flight technique to obtain a large number of charged kaon
decays within the short time frame of a few years. The beam used in NA62 is produced from a
400 GeV proton beam from the Super Proton Synchrotron (SPS) incident on a Beryllium target
(T10), resulting in a secondary beam containing charged kaons. The secondary beam produced
has a momentum of 75 GeV and has a composition of mostly pions (70 %), protons (23 %), kaons
(6 %) and a small number of muons ( <1 %).
3.1 Detector Setup
The NA62 detector comprises several sub-detectors. This subsection will cover a basic overview
of the sub-detectors, with more in-depth explanations for sub-detector relevant to the symmetric
setup.
Figure 1: X-Z diagram of NA62 detector setup for Run 1
From the T10 target, the charged kaon beam travels through the beam pipe to the experimen-
tal hall ECN3, where the first sub-detector is found. A differential Cherenkov detector tags the
charged kaons in the beam. Cherenkov light is produced by charged particles passing through a
CERN CEDAR vessel filled with Nitrogen gas at a pressure of around 1.75 bar (1). Due to the high
intensity and tight time resolution requirements employed at NA62, the original photo-detectors
(PMT’s) and front-end electronics were inadequate. The KTAG has been developed for the NA62
to meet the high kaon rate requirements and time resolution requirements of O(100ps).
Downstream of the KTAG is the beam spectrometer named the Giga Tracker (GTK). The GTK
comprises 4 silicon trackers stations to measure the beam’s position, time and momentum. As
the GTK is directly in the beamline, vetoing any particles produced from inelastic interactions
is essential. This is done by the Charged Anti-coincidence detector (CHANTI) located slightly
downstream of the final GTK station. The CHANTI detects charged particles using polystyrene
base scintillators.
The main decay volume is located downstream of the CHANTI and is in a large vacuum tube
shown in figure 1. This is where kaons are allowed to decay if they are to be within the acceptance
6of the various sub-detectors. Downstream from this is the STRAW Spectrometer which provides
kinematic measurements of the charged products of the kaon decays. It consists of four spectrom-
eter chambers and a dipole magnet (MNP33) with two of the chambers located before the magnet
and two after. A more detailed description of this detector is provided in section 3.1.2.
The Ring Imaging Cherenkov (RICH) follows the last straw chamber and is a 17 m long neon-filled
vessel. It is designed to distinguish between pions and muons and is part of the Particle Identifi-
cation system (PID). This is also complemented by the Muon Veto (MUV) system comprising two
hadronic calorimeters (MUV1 and MUV2)
A Photon-Veto system provides coverage of photons produced from the decay region up to 50 mrad
with respect to the z-axis. This includes:
•12 Large Angle Vetos (LAVs) placed along the decay region, between STRAW spectrometer
chambers and after the RICH. Providing coverage of photons emitted at angles from 8.5 to
50 mrad (3).
•Liquid Krypton calorimeter (LKr) which is located after the RICH and was used in the
predecessor experiment NA48.
•Small Angle Veto (SAV) system, comprising of two shashlyk calorimeters named the Small
Angle Calorimeter (SAC) and the Intermediate-Ring Calorimeter (IRC) which provides pho-
ton veto coverage for small angles.
There are several other detectors, such as the MUV3, which provides fast signals for use in the L0
trigger system and a pair of Charged Particle Hodoscopes (CHODs), which also provide input to
the L0 trigger system. Some additional veto detectors, such as MUV0 and the HASC are used to
for analysis.
For the new run (after LS2), there have been several additions to the detector setup. The ANTI-0
detector is a hodoscope placed downstream of the CHANTI before the decay volume, used to veto
halo particles (mostly muons) that enter the decay volume (4). A second detector system has been
implemented between the GTK stations to veto any decay products of kaons decaying between
the GTK stations, named the Veto Counter (VC), it is made up of three stations of scintillators
between GTK stations 3 and 2.
Two sub-detectors, KTAG and STRAW spectrometer, will be described in more detail due to their
relevance to the studies that are planned for my PhD. The KTAG-CEDAR has been selected due
to my involvement in the CEDAR-H test beam. The STRAW spectrometer has been selected due
to my participation in the development of flexibility of the sub-detector and its subsequent use in
the symmetric NA62 study later on in this report.
3.1.1 KTAG
As mentioned previously, kaons are identified in the beam by the CEDAR-KTAG subdetector. The
charged beam produces Cherenkov light when passing through the Nitrogen gas-filled CEDAR. The
light produced is then reflected onto a ring-shaped diaphragm by the Mangin mirror, located at
the end of the CEDAR vessel, which is a special geometry to produce the ring shape needed to
distinguish particles. Between the mirror and the diaphragm, the light passes through a chromatic
corrector lens that corrects for the dispersion caused by the gas. The diaphragm only allows the
light of a certain radius to pass through, allowing the selection of certain particles corresponding
light. The particle is selected by altering the pressure of the gas. After the diaphragm the light
passes through several quartz windows into the KTAG enclosure.
7Figure 2: Diagram describing the CEDAR optics (1)
The light is reflected by eight spherical mirrors located around the beam pipe into eight light
boxes, which are seen in figure 3. Each lightbox (commonly referred to as sectors) contains 48
photomultipliers converting the light into electrical signals that are then collected by the front-end
electronics.
At the start of a data-taking period, a pressure scan is completed to isolate the kaon peak from
the other constituents of the beam. Through tests and pressure scans, the optimal pressure for
kaons is set at 1.75 bar. Considering the quartz windows and the Nitrogen gas, the total material
path of the beam is 3 .5×10−2X0(3).
Figure 3: Photo of CEDAR and KTAG installed in the NA62 beamline
Improving the material budget is possible by replacing Nitrogen with Hydrogen at a higher pressure
of 3.9 bar, resulting in a reduced material path of 7 ×10−3X0.
3.1.2 STRAW Spectrometer
The STRAW Spectrometer is used for kinematic measurements of charged decay products and
comprises of four separate chambers and one dipole magnet (MNP33). The chambers are located
downstream from the decay region, with chambers 1 and 2 separated by 10 m with the MNP33
magnet placed downstream of chamber 2. Chambers 3 and 4 are located downstream of the MNP33
with a separation of 14 m. Each chamber comprises four views, containing four layers of straws
in a pattern shown in figure 4. The straws are 2.1 m long drift tubes that are about 9.75 mm in
diameter containing an ArCO 2gas mixture and are similar to proportional counters. As a particle
passes through the gas, it ionises the gas producing a signal in the central wire. This allows for
a measurement of the spatial position of the particle, which, along with the MNP33 allows for
momentum calculations of the particles.
8Figure 4: Diagram of straw placement in each view (2)
References
[1] C. Bovet, R. Maleyran, L. Piemontese, A. Placci, and M. Placidi, “The Cedar Counters for
Particle Identification in the SPS Secondary Beams: A Description and an Operation Manual,”
12 1982.
[2] A. Sergi, “Na62 spectrometer: A low mass straw tracker,” Physics Procedia , vol. 37,
pp. 530–534, 2012, proceedings of the 2nd International Conference on Technology
and Instrumentation in Particle Physics (TIPP 2011). [Online]. Available: https:
//www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1875389212017348
[3] NA62Collaboration, “The beam and detector of the NA62 experiment at CERN,” Journal
of Instrumentation , vol. 12, no. 05, pp. P05 025–P05 025, may 2017. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1088%2F1748-0221%2F12%2F05%2Fp05025
[4] H. Danielsson et al. , “New veto hodoscope ANTI-0 for the NA62 experiment at CERN,”
JINST , vol. 15, p. C07007. 8 p, Jul 2020, iNSTR20: Instrumentation for Colliding Beam
Physics. [Online]. Available: https://cds.cern.ch/record/2723429
9
